                                                         12.6.92An ·-Soft,Tastaturkommandos, die mir z.Zt. noch nicht bekannt sind, tauchenim Text als Option-@ und Command-@ auf (es sind aber nur wenige).Mit freundlichen GrŸ§enUdo Kobrow----------------------------------------------------------------Connecting the interface to your Apple MacintoshBEWARE: Before connecting the interface to either of thetwo computers, make sure you turn it off. Otherwise youmight damage the computer or the interface.First of all, turn off your Macintosh! Then connect theinterface cable either to the printer or modem port.The printer or modem port is at the back of yourMacintosh. Please also note the instructions in yourcomputer manual.Connecting the interface to a Sharp OrganizerFirst of all, make sure you turn off your Organizer!Having switched it off, insert the interface cable intothe port marked "COMPUTER LINK". Push up the littleplastic cover of your Organizer, so that the smallsocket becomes visible.Important note: Make sure the Organizer isn't in linkmode for too long, as it uses up a lot more electricitythan under normal conditions. Only switch to link modewhen you are actually intending to transfer data. Assoon as the transfer is completed, Transfile Mac IQusually leaves link mode automatically.Connecting a Sharp IQ-8x00Sharp Organizers of the IQ-8x00 series have their portson the left-hand side. Insert the interface cable insuch a way that the sticker on the plug points downward.Insert the plug with great care. Do not use force! Onceinserted, the plug must be completely flush against thecase.Connecting a Sharp IQ-7x00On Sharp Organizers of the type IQ-7x00 insert theinterface into the "COMPUTER LINK" port at the top ofthe Organizer. The side of the plug with the stickermust point upward.Insert the plug with great care. Do not use force! Onceinserted, the plug must be completely flush against thecase.Connecting a Sharp IQ-77x0Sharp Organizers of the IQ-7700 series have their porton the left-hand side. The interface cable must beinserted in such a way that the sticker of the interfacecable points downward.Insert the plug with great care. Do not use force! Onceinserted, the plug must be completely flush against thecase.Important note:Make sure the Organizer isn't in link mode for too long,as it uses up a lot more electricity than under normalconditions. Only switch to link mode when you areactually intending to transfer data. As soon as thetransfer is completed, Transfile Mac IQ usually leaveslink mode automatically.Connecting a Sharp ZQ-5x00On Sharp Organizers of the ZQ-5x00 series the interfacecable needs to be inserted on the left-hand side. Theside of the plug with the sticker must point upward.Insert the plug with great care. Do not use force! Onceinserted, the plug must be completely flush against thecase.Important note:Make sure the Organizer isn't in link mode for too long,as it uses up a lot more electricity than under normalconditions. Only switch to link mode when you areactually intending to transfer data. As soon as thetransfer is completed, Transfile Mac IQ usually leaveslink mode automatically.Transferring and saving dataAs a first step we shall now describe how all thedatabase areas of the Sharp Organizer are transferred tothe Macintosh and then saved to hard disk.First of all, you need to specify the port to which youhave connected the Transfile interface cable on yourMacintosh.Fold down the "Sharp" menu and select the relevant port,i.e. either 'Modem port' or 'Printer port'.Your current port setting is marked with a tick againstthe relevant entry.To start transferring data from the Organizer to yourApple Macintosh, press Command-@ on the Macintoshkeyboard or select 'Receive from Sharp' in the "Sharp"menu.A dialog box is then presented, prompting you to setyour Sharp Organizer to LINK mode.Next, turn on your Sharp Organizer and set it to LINKmode by pressing first the blue >SHIFT< key on yourOrganizer, followed by the blue >OPTION< key. A menu ispresented where you need to select LINK mode by pressingkey >4<.Important note: Make sure that the SECRET mode of yourOrganizer is OFF. Otherwise no data (on the IQ-8x00) oronly a limited number of data (on the IQ-7x00) can betransferred! You can recognize SECRET mode by a little[S] in a closed box on the edge of the Organizerdisplay.On your Macintosh, confirm the dialog box by clicking[ÊOKÊ]. Transfile now checks for 1-3 seconds whichdatabase areas are available on the connected Organizer.During the first transfer Transfile automatically findsout which Organizer is connected and which cards mayhave been plugged in. It then behaves accordingly.Another dialog box is presented where you can select thedatabase areas you wish to tranfer:Whichever areas you select here will be transferredlater. You can select the various areas by clicking onthem with your mouse.To start the transfer, click on [ÊOKÊ] or press Returnon your Macintosh.During transfer the status of the transfer is shown inthe status display:When the transfer has been completed, the displaydisappears again. Your data can now be saved to disk.The transfer can be interrupted any time by pressingCommand-. (full stop).To save your data, select 'Save As...' from the 'File'menu. Open the desired directory and give a name to yourfile. Conclude your input by clicking on [ÊSaveÊ].What if the transfer doesn't work?If there is no successful transfer between your SharpOrganizer and an Apple Macintosh, check the followingpoints:Make sure the interface cable is correctly plugged intoyour Organizer. If you have an IQ-7x00 or ZQ-5x00, thenthe Yellow Computing sticker has to point upward, but onan IQ-77x0 and IQ-8x00 it should point downward.Is the interface cable on your Apple Macintosh connectedto the correct port (i.e. modem or printer). In otherwords: is the linkage the same as the one set underTransfile's 'Sharp' menu?Is the Secret mode on your Sharp Organizer off? If not,then IQ-8x00 Organizers do not allow any data transferwhatever.Arrow up	Move cursor up one line within a field.Arrow down	Move cursor down one line within a field.Arrow left	Move cursor one character to the left.Arrow right	Move cursor one character to the right.Backspace	Delete character or marked text to the left of the cursorReturn		Start a new line in the current field.TAB			Go to next field.Shift-TAB	Go to previous field.Option-@	Creates the so-called CalcÊData symbol "¥" in the Memo area (which corresponds to the triangular symbol in the Organizer). However, this does not trigger off a calculation itself.Command-.	(Control and full stop at the same time). Leave the Editor without taking over the changes that were made to the current record.Command-D	Insert today's date at the current cursor positionCommand-T	Insert time (i.e. now) at the current cursor position.Further options if you have an extended keyboard:Enter		Same action as [ÊOKÊ] button.Del			Delete character to the right of the cursor.Page up		Go up one page.Page down	Go down one page.ESC			Leave Editor without taking over any changes made to the current record.Return		New lineEnter		Put record in listCommand-O	Same as clicking [ OKÊ]ESC			Same as clicking [ CancelÊ]In the "File" menuCommand-N	NewCommand-O	Open...Command-W	Close...Command-S	Save...Command-@	Print...Command-Q	Quit...In the "Edit" menuCommand-Z	Undo...Command-X	Cut...Command-C	Copy...Command-V	Paste...Command-A	Select allCommand-@	New entryIn the "Sharp" menuCommand-@	Send to Sharp...Command-@	Receive from Sharp...Command-@	Backup...In the "Special" menuCommand-@	Find...In the "Windows" menuCommand-@	Next windowCommand-@	Zoom windowCommand-@	Sort windowsWhile printing:Command-. 	(full stop)	Abort printing immediatelyDuring transfer:Command-. 	(full stop)	Abort transfer immediatelyIn dialog boxes:All dialog boxes can also be operated from the keyboard.In dialog boxes with text input enter Command-[initialletter of the option button] - except for [ÊAlarmÊ],which is Command-A in the Editor window. In all otherdialog boxes the initial letters are sufficient.